['Climate change is forcing several grand transitions. Energy is the most obvious, and linked to that is transport. ', 'The pace of that change for Scotland has picked up with the latest plans from the Scottish government agency Transport Scotland.', 'It is showing the impact of a changed agenda since Green ministers joined the team at Holyrood, followed by pledges made at the COP26 summit in Glasgow in November.', "Six months on, the rubber, to coin a phrase, is hitting the road. But the road is becoming a very much lower priority. Pledges to existing programmes for improvement remain, but it's not clear if they're on the right road or parked some way off it.", 'No explanation was offered<a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-scotland-scotland-business-61728712" class="ssrcss-k17ofw-InlineLink e1no5rhv0"> in the published report of the vague statements in the capital spending review last week</a>, about Scottish government pledges being broken, timetables slipping, and funds for projects being unallocated.', 'Transport Scotland has, however, offered more detail on some of the major road projects:', "To read Transport Scotland's delivery plan, however, road improvements are a minor part of its thinking. ", "As the capital spending review set out, the budget for 'active travel', such as cycling and walking, is soaring from £114m this year to £259m next year and the year after.", 'Meanwhile the motorway and trunk roads budget is falling next year from £411m to £377m, and staying at the lower level at least until 2025-26.', 'Among the projects worth watching: ', 'Tensions remain, however, between economic growth, consumer choice and the pressure or need to combat climate change.  ', 'For instance, "We will continue to work closely with Scotland\'s airports and airlines globally to help restore and grow Scotland\'s international connectivity, without restoring previous levels of emissions".', "The tension between desired outcomes and unhappy experience is not even addressed when it comes to ferries. Some £580m is supposed to be allocated to the islands fleet, and that's ahead of a review of island connectivity. ", 'But stating the broad intention of more hybrid-powered, low carbon ferries brings to mind the vast overspend resulting from a novel design of two ships being built in Inverclyde for use of both diesel and liquified natural gas. ', 'Words can gloss over the tensions between different policy objectives. Words also need to address which lessons have been learned.', 'World Cup winner Jürgen Klinsmann invites you to subscribe to his daily World Cup newsletter.', '© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/editorialguidelines/guidance/feeds-and-links" class="ssrcss-odwm7b-Link e14mg4ud0">Read about our approach to external linking.</a>']