['<b class="ssrcss-hmf8ql-BoldText e5tfeyi3">A Gwent Police officer sent "wholly inappropriate and unprofessional" messages to three women, a disciplinary hearing has heard.</b>', 'PC Robert Davies is accused of sending "suggestive and overly familiar" texts with a police-issued mobile phone between January and May 2020.', 'The hearing was told he failed to maintain boundaries between a police officer and member of the public.', 'PC Davies denies breaching standards amounting to gross misconduct.', 'Counsel Jonathan Walters said: "In many respects, the behaviour is akin to flirting and consistent with him seeking to pursue a sexual or, at the very least, an emotional relationship with the women."', 'The panel at the Old Gwent Police Headquarters, near Cwmbran, Torfaen, heard PC Davies, 50, sent one woman an inappropriate message in January 2020 about "naughty dreams".', 'The woman, named only as Ms A, previously knew PC Davies but renewed contact when her sister became the victim of a crime and the officer was asked to investigate.', 'After his professional involvement with Ms A ended, he made contact with her the following month. ', 'In texts, seen by the hearing, he wrote: "No hugs until it\'s over and after that maybe a kiss too."', 'In another he wrote: "I expect you are still as much fun as you have always been. I was thinking of you being naughty with me. If that sounds OK. I need someone who is fun."', 'The hearing was also told PC Davies was in regular text and phone contact with another woman "struggling with drug addiction" known as Ms B.', 'Giving evidence, the woman said she first met PC Davies when he was dealing with issues involving her son in 2018 and later her ex partner in 2020.', 'She agreed he had been "caring, compassionate and helpful," when asked by PC Davies\' counsel David Sapiecha.', 'However, Ms B said some of his messages could be "quite persistent" and she was "irritated and annoyed on occasions", but described the communications as "harmless." ', 'One message read: "Stay safe, you\'re important to me."', 'Ms B said she was "intrigued" by the messages and told the hearing she was not sure of his intentions.  ', "She said she wasn't sure if he wanted a relationship or was befriending her to get information.", 'She told the hearing: "He was being a lot more attentive and friendly than a normal police officer".', 'Mr Sapiecha asked: "He was supportive of you, giving you encouragement in the difficulties you had been through?"', 'She replied: "Yes."', 'He then asked her: "You don\'t think you were told any police secrets?" Ms B said no.', 'He went on: "There was no deep emotional relationship? Partners?" She said no again.', 'She told the misconduct hearing she had sent a message to PC Davies saying she was "concerned" about their contact.', 'When asked to explain, Ms B said: "I was concerned because I was an addict for many years. ', '"I have a long criminal record, I\'ve been to prison twice and I was concerned he might get into trouble befriending someone like me."', 'The hearing is not connected to the Wiltshire Police investigation into <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-wales-63689022" class="ssrcss-k17ofw-InlineLink e1no5rhv0">allegations of misogyny, corruption and racism</a> within Gwent Police.', 'The hearing continues and is expected to last four days.', '© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/editorialguidelines/guidance/feeds-and-links" class="ssrcss-odwm7b-Link e14mg4ud0">Read about our approach to external linking.</a>']