['<b class="ssrcss-hmf8ql-BoldText e5tfeyi3">Police in Northern Ireland have raided 27 brothels in what has been described as the biggest operation against human trafficking they have carried out to date.</b>', 'The Police Service of Northern Ireland (PSNI) said it has been investigating an organised crime group behind the trafficking of people into both Northern Ireland and the Republic.', 'Most of the victims are from Brazil.', 'A 63-year-old man and a 47-year-old woman have been arrested.', 'The man, arrested in Pomeroy, County Tyrone, and woman, arrested in Newry, County Down, are in custody on suspicion of human trafficking, controlling prostitution, brothel keeping and money laundering. ', 'Police believe the victims were targeted because of their immigration status and lack of English language skills, said PSNI Det Ch Supt Andy Hill, head of the Organised Crime Branch.', '"This is so typical of what human traffickers do," he said. ', '"They rely on the fact that victims are unable or afraid to speak out.  ', '"They prey on vulnerable people, control everything in their lives and make vast amounts of money from exploiting them," he added.', "The PSNI's Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Unit were supported in the operation - dubbed Operation Liverless - by:", "Northern Ireland's largest human trafficking operation started at around 09:00 GMT. ", 'Some 150 officers targeted an organised crime group that has been trafficking people throughout Northern Ireland for sexual exploitation.', 'I went with the team to Newry as officers raided brothels and offered support and protection to the victims.  ', 'Today we learned more about these women and transgender individuals, mostly from Brazil, who had been exploited in 27 brothels.', 'Police believe they were targeted due to their immigration status and lack of English language skills - which makes them vulnerable to exploitation.  ', 'Liam Harrison, from the NCA\'s Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking Unit, said modern slavery and human trafficking were "often hidden in plain sight".', '"The solution requires collective efforts, and I\'m appealing to anyone who has information or concerns that someone is being controlled to please do the right thing and speak up," Det Ch Supt Hill said.  ', '"Your call could end the misery of a victim living right next door," he added.  ', 'The brothels raided were in:', '© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/editorialguidelines/guidance/feeds-and-links" class="ssrcss-odwm7b-Link e14mg4ud0">Read about our approach to external linking.</a>']