['<b class="ssrcss-hmf8ql-BoldText e5tfeyi3">The Archbishop of Canterbury has said Ukraine must not be forced to accept a peace deal with Russia, while on a visit to the war-torn nation.  </b>', 'The Most Reverend Justin Welby told the BBC "justice demands that there is defeat" of "an evil invasion". ', 'He visited Bucha where evidence of atrocities and civilian killings were found after Russian troops withdrew.', "It comes as millions of people remain without power or heating due to Russian attacks on Ukraine's power grid.", 'The most senior cleric in the Church of England was highlighting the need for support for the country ahead of a tough winter. ', '"I am clear that President (Vladimir) Putin chose to start the war and release the evil" that comes from that, he said.', 'It is proper to support a "victim nation" that is "being overrun by aggression", the archbishop continued, adding the international community had a "duty of care" to protect weaker nations.', 'The consequences of letting Ukraine down would be "infinitely worse" than of carrying on the support for Kyiv, he said. ', '"It would be more expensive and politically catastrophic because it will prove that Putin was right when he thought the West would not stand together for long enough for this to end justly and fairly."', 'The archbishop visited the city of Bucha which was occupied by Russian forces for just over a month earlier this year. ', 'When troops retreated in March, evidence of civilians being killed - a war crime - were found.', "At St Andrew's church, where a mass grave was uncovered, the local priest showed the archbishop a display of photographs of the atrocities committed during Russia's occupation. ", 'These included the bodies of civilians shot in the head, a man lying dead on the verge beneath his bicycle, and a dog apparently waiting by his side. ', 'Reminded that Russian officials claim the killings were all staged by Ukraine, Justin Welby pointed out: "And they tied their hands behind their backs?"', "Outside, he paused quietly for a moment's contemplation in the church grounds at the spot of the former mass grave, now covered in snow. ", 'One hundred and sixteen bodies were found there, when Bucha was freed by Ukrainian troops. ', '"I went over there to imprint it on my mind, so that whatever I hear, I don\'t forget that," he explained, referring again to Russian disinformation about the killings in Bucha.', 'He also visited the so-called Bridge of Hope - which was the <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-europe-60651801" class="ssrcss-k17ofw-InlineLink e1no5rhv0">only route out of Russian-occupied Bucha and neighbouring Irpin</a> in March, and where local priests helped people escape under fire.', 'He suggested there could be no peace in Ukraine until Russia "stops lying" about what it is doing, including the massacre of civilians in Bucha.', '"He\'s got to stop lying. Lavrov and Putin," the archbishop said, referring to the Russian president and Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov.', '"There were atrocities committed here. There will be no peace until we stop lying. ', '"We have to tell the truth however painful. There can be no way forward based on lies."', 'Before leaving Bucha, the archbishop lit a candle in a chapel beneath St Andrew\'s church and began a prayer with the words, "our hearts cry out in anger and protest", and called for peace and for justice.', '© 2022 BBC. The BBC is not responsible for the content of external sites. <a href="https://www.bbc.co.uk/editorialguidelines/guidance/feeds-and-links" class="ssrcss-odwm7b-Link e14mg4ud0">Read about our approach to external linking.</a>']